- [Instructor] One last topic I'd like to cover
is how to add paging and sorting
to a DTO-based API.
The first thing we're going to do
is add a new method to TourRatingRepository.
That will return a page of tour ratings.
So at the bottom of this,
we're going to say
Page of TourRatings
findByPkTourId and we're going to overload that not
just with the tourId
but we're also going to have the Pageable
parameter passed in.
And then back in our TourRatingController,
so we're going to take the existing get method
for get All Tour Ratings for a tour
and have that return a page of data.
So we'll have the return as a Page
of RatingDtos, not TourRatings.
And then we pass in Pagable.
And we're still going to verify the tourId
but this code is going to change.
So what we have here now starting on line 69
is we're going
to invoke the TourRatingRepository findByPkTourId
where we pass in the tourId and the Pagable object
that is in the parameter of the API
and we're going to return a new PageImpl
and the parameters of a PageImpl is a list of data,
then the Pageable object
and then the total number of elements
in the system.
So we're going to look up the ratings
which we have.
We're going to iterate through the list of tour ratings
for that particular page that was requested,
map them to a new RatingDto
and collect them to a list
so now that's the first parameter
is a list of TourRatingDtos.
Passing along the pageable object
and then from the ratings object,
there is a getTotalElements
and that's the total elements in the system,
now just the page.
So let's run it.
And it's running.
So let's go to Postman
and we see
that we have already up here a post of ratings.
We're just going to create now a bunch of tour ratings.
So let's create it, so let's do several of these.
One got a score of one.
Let's say a score of two from customer two.
Customer three also gave a score.
Customer four gave a score of three
and so did customer five.
And then a score of four from customer six.
And then a score of five from customer seven.
And they all said no comment.
So now we're going to call the GET for the page.
So now we have these new attributes on here.
I'm back in the Spring Data REST chapter.
It describes how these parameters are used
and mapped into the system.
So we're going to get the ratings,
the size of the page is two.
We're going to get page ID one which'll be the second page
and then we'll going to sort by the score descending.
And there's our page of data.
At the bottom of the response body
is metadata for the client to use
when navigating through the pages.
Unlike Spring Data REST,
REST controller APIs
do not automatically generate hypermedia links.
You have to code it yourself.
You can learn how to implement that in my course
Extending, Securing
and Dockerizing Spring Boot Microservices.